Software Requirements Specifications for Mwanyi ecommerce platform

Introduction:
The purpose of this document is to provide a detailed software requirements specification for Mwanyi ecommerce platform. 
The system will allow farmers to get buyers for their coffee.

Functional Requirements:
1. User Registration:
The system should allow users to register and create an account. Users will need to provide their name, email address, phone number and password.

2. User Login:
The system should allow registered users to log in using their email address and password.

3. Menu Display:
The system should display menus for selected catergories of cofee products and coffee products pictures.

4. Ordering:
The system should allow users to add items to their cart and place an order.


Technical Requirements:
1. Programming Language:
The system should be developed using a web-based programming language of React js.

2. Database Management:
The system should use a relational database management system (RDBMS) to store user data, orders, and coffee information.


Conclusion:
This software requirements specification outlines the functional and technical requirements for Mwanyi ecommerce platform.
 The system will provide security to the users.


Software Design Description of Mwanyi ecommerce platform.

It is an ecommerce platform connecting coffee farmers to markets(Potential buyers) system which deals with
different information on coffee, designed to provide farmers and buyers  with the ability to trade.
It aims at providing a good experience for both farmers and the buyers while ensuring that the system is secure.

Mwanyi ecommerce platform is built using different independent services each with a specific function;

Database: The system uses a relational database to store data and consisting of different tables;

authentication: Helps in logging in and logging out a user
Users: stores user information, including usernames, passwords and contact information.
Settings: stores the restuarant information, including name, location and working hours.
Orders: stores informationabout customer orders, including the ordered items.
Addresses: stores the customer address details, including the name of the place.
Categories: stores the coffee categories that can be found on the platform 
Districts: stores the information of the farmers and buyers' district, including the name of the district.

Products: stores the kinds of coffee products that each category contains.

User Interface:
The web application has a user-friendly interface that is easy to navigate  through and it includes different sections;
Home: the landing page displays popular foods provided by the restaurant and the services provided.
Contact: this section gives clear description on how to contact the experts of restaurant.
SignUp: gives details on how a client can register to access different services of the restaurant.
Login: identifies the old client by the initial credentials that were provided.

Security:
The system protects user information improving its security by using security measures;
HTTPS encryption for all data in transit.
User authentication using JWT tokens.
Input validation and sanitization to prevent SQL injection attacks.
Use of password hashing to protect user passwords.

Conclusion:
Flash Bites Eatery online food delivery system is designed to provide customers with a good experience while ensuring that the system is secure. The system consists of several independent services, each responsible for a specific function, and will be deployed on separate servers to ensure fault tolerance, scalability, and maintainability.

Status codes
400 =>bad request; a user misses required parameters, invalid data types.
401 => unauthorised; a user is not authenticated.
404 => not found; a user puts a request does not exist in the server.
409 => conflict; a user puts a resources that already exists.
200 => ok; request is successful.
201 => ok; a resource has been successful created.

